Introduction
This assignment is worth 15% of the marks for your final assessment in this unit. Heavy
penalties will apply for late submissions. This is an individual assignment and must be
entirely your own work. You must attribute the source of any part of your code which you
have not written yourself. Please note the section on plagiarism in this document.
The assignment must be done using the BlueJ environment.
The Java source code for this assignment must be implemented according to the Java Coding
Standards for this unit.
Any points needing clarification must be discussed with your tutor in the tutorial class. Your
tutor is your "client" - so you need to implement your program to suit his requirements.
Specification
For this assignment you will write a program that plays a rather simplistic Lucky Vending
Machine. This section specifies the required functionality of the program. Only a text
interface is required for this program; however, more marks will be gained for a game that
is easy to follow with clear information/error messages to the player.
The aim of the Lucky Vending Machine is to simulate a physical vending machine
commonly found in shopping malls, where a player inserts some coins, pulls a handle and
wins a random prize (or no prize). You program will display a menu which allows the player
to select various options to simulate the various vending machine operations. The "prizes" are
decided by the computer (the vending machine) generating a random number between 1-5,
with each number representing a particular prize (see prize table in the Program Logic
section below). To "win" a prize, the player will need to guess correctly the number
generated by the computer. The prizes are worth between $10-50, and each guess will cost
the player between $1-5.
Each time the player chooses to play (ie. doing a "Guess A Prize"), he** is charged between
$1-5, depending on what he wants to win (see Prize Table). The program will keep a record
of all the prizes he has won, the total worth of the prizes, and how much money he has spent.
At any point, the program can print out these statistics.
For this assignment, the program will only handle ONE player at any one time. However, the
player can be changed while the program is executing.
** for the rest of the document, "he" will be taken to mean "he/she".
